Opusmodus                                                                       half-triangle   1

half-triangle res amplitude &key freq phase modulation
[Function]

Arguments and Values:
res                    resolution and length of the wave.
amplitude              a number representing the amplitude of the wave.
                       or a sequence serving as alternating amplitudes.
freq                   a number representing the frequency of the wave.
                       The default is 1.
phase                  a number representing the phase. The default is NIL.
modulation             if NIL no modulation, otherwise a wave. The default is NIL.


Description:

The HALF-TRIANGLE function generates a sequence of vectors that describe and simulate
the characteristics of a half triangle wave.

First the GEN-TRIANGLE:

(list-plot (gen-triangle 32 1 0.5) :join-points t)
Opusmodus                                                                  half-triangle    2

Now the HALF-TRIANGLE:

(list-plot (half-triangle 32 0.5) :join-points t)




With control over resolution (the length of the wave), frequency and amplitude (and
additional control over phase and modulation) this function can be a remarkably effective
tool for creating gestural forms in pitch, rhythm, dynamics and structure.


Examples:
(list-plot (half-triangle 120 1.0 :phase 45) :join-points t)
Opusmodus                                                              half-triangle   3



In the example below the keyword :modulation is applied and its values are generated by
the GEN-TRIANGLE function.

(list-plot
 (half-triangle 120 1.0 :phase 45 :modulation (gen-triangle 120 1 0.2))
 :join-points t)




In the example below the amplitude parameter '(0.5 0.2 0.1) has three values.
These represent a sequence of alternating amplitudes.

(list-plot (half-triangle 120 '(0.5 0.2 0.1)) :join-points t)
Opusmodus                                                                 half-triangle     4

In this nal example the keyword :phase is used to produce a different start point (90) in
the 360 degree range.

(list-plot (half-triangle 120 '(0.5 0.2 0.1) :phase 90)
 :join-points t)




In this nal example the GEN-TRIANGLE the amplitude values are generated by the
HALF-TRIANGLE function:

(list-plot (gen-triangle 120 5 (half-triangle 120 1.0 :phase 180))
 :join-points t)
fi
fi
Opusmodus                                                               half-triangle   5

(list-plot (gen-triangle 120 5 (half-triangle 240 1.0 :phase 180))
 :join-points t)




Here below there's a clear example of how alternating amplitude values can affect the
wave output when the vectors are mapped to pitches.

(pitch-list-plot
 (vector-to-pitch
  '(g3 g5)
  (gen-triangle 120 32 (half-triangle 120 1.0 :phase 180))
 :join-points t :join-chords nil)
