Opusmodus                                                                       half-sawtooth   1

half-sawtooth res amplitude &key freq phase modulation
[Function]

Arguments and Values:
res                    resolution and length of the wave.
amplitude              a number representing the amplitude of the wave.
                       or a sequence serving as alternating amplitudes.
freq                   a number representing the frequency of the wave.
                       The default is 1.
phase                  a number representing the phase. The default is NIL.
modulation             if NIL no modulation, otherwise a wave. The default is NIL.


Description:

The HALF-SAWTOOTH function generates a sequence of vectors that describe and simulate
the characteristics of a half sawtooth wave.


Examples:

First the GEN-SAWTOOTH:

(list-plot (gen-sawtooth 32 1 0.5))
Opusmodus                                                                  half-sawtooth    2

Now the HALF-SAWTOOTH:

(list-plot (half-sawtooth 32 0.5))




With control over resolution (the length of the wave), frequency and amplitude (and
additional control over phase and modulation) this function can be a remarkably effective
tool for creating gestural forms in pitch, rhythm, dynamics and structure.

(list-plot (half-sawtooth 120 1.0 :phase 90))
Opusmodus                                                              half-sawtooth   3

In the example below the keyword :modulation is applied and its values are generated by
the GEN-SAWTOOTH function.

(list-plot
 (half-sawtooth 120 1.0 :phase 90 :modulation (gen-sawtooth 120 1 0.7)))




In the example below the amplitude parameter '(0.5 0.2 0.1) has three values. These
represent a sequence of alternating amplitudes.

(list-plot (half-sawtooth 120 '(0.5 0.2 0.1)))
Opusmodus                                                                 half-sawtooth     4

In this nal example the keyword :phase is used to produce a different start point (90) in
the 360 degree range.

(list-plot (half-sawtooth 120 '(0.5 0.2 0.1) :phase 90))




In this nal example the GEN-SAWTOOTH the amplitude values are generated by the
HALF-SAWTOOTH function:

(list-plot (gen-sawtooth 120 5 (half-sawtooth 120 1.0 :phase 180)))
fi
fi
Opusmodus                                                               half-sawtooth   5

(list-plot (gen-sawtooth 120 5 (half-sawtooth 240 1.0 :phase 180)))




Here below there's a clear example of how alternating amplitude values can affect the
wave output when the vectors are mapped to pitches.

(list-plot
 (vector-to-pitch '(g3 g5)
  (gen-sawtooth 120 32 (half-sawtooth 120 1.0 :phase 180)))
