Opusmodus                                                                 mod-sawtooth-waves   1

mod-sawtooth-waves niter res freq amplitude
                               &key phase modulation variant

[Function]

Arguments and Values:
niter                   a number representing the iteration of the wave.
res                     resolution and length of the wave.
freq                    a number representing the frequency of the wave.
amplitude               a number representing the amplitude of the wave.
                        or a sequence serving as alternating amplitudes.
phase                   a number repesenting the phase. The default is NIL.
modulation              if NIL no modulation, otherwise a wave. The default is NIL.
variant                 1 or 2. The default is 1.


Description:

Modulating iterations of sawtooth-waves as generated by GEN-SAWTOOTH niter times.
Arguments following niter are the same as in GEN-SAWTOOTH.

(mod-sawtooth-waves 4 32 4 0.6)
=> (-0.6 -0.49345012879558214 -0.36740863462940804
      -0.210979234907056 0.0 0.33058602639188506
      0.3173768625141671 . . .)


Examples:

The term niter is an abbreviation for n iterations. It is a form of frequency control
making possible a halving of frequency at each iteration. This is a feature of the famous
Poincare oscillation or section, which is a common feature of harmonic and dynamic
systems. As with the GEN-SAWTOOTH examples the following demonstrate how the addition
of :modulation and :phase can have a rich impact on the distortions of the waveform.
Opusmodus                                                        mod-sawtooth-waves   2

(list-plot (mod-sawtooth-waves 1 120 4 0.6))




(list-plot
 (mod-sawtooth-waves 1 120 1 0.6
 :modulation (gen-sawtooth 120 1 0.4 :phase 60)))




In the example below a new keyword is introduced :variant. This has two positions 1
and 2 of which 1 is the default.
Opusmodus                                             mod-sawtooth-waves   3

(list-plot (mod-sawtooth-waves 50 120 4 0.3
            :modulation (gen-sawtooth 120 1 0.4)))




(list-plot
 (mod-sawtooth-waves 50 120 4 0.3
  :modulation (gen-sawtooth 120 1 0.4) :variant 2))
Opusmodus                                                          mod-sawtooth-waves   4

Here below there's a clear example of how alternating amplitude values can affect the
wave output when the vectors are mapped to pitches.

(vector-to-pitch
 '(g3 g5)
 (mod-sawtooth-waves 4 64 4 0.6
  :modulation (gen-sawtooth 64 1 '(0.5 0.2 0.1) :phase 60)))

=> (g3 gs3 a3 as3 c4 cs4 ds4 f4 g4 as4 d5 g5 cs5 a3 a4
    c5 g3 fs4 d5 gs3 f4 e5 a3 as3 as4 gs3 cs4 gs4 fs5
    ds4 cs4 g4 as3 ds5 b4 b4 as3 ds5 gs4 fs4 b4 g5 ds4
    gs4 gs4 e5 d5 c4 gs4 cs4 as4 as4 ds4 e4 c5 e4 ds5
    g5 f5 e4 cs5 gs3 fs5 ds5)
Opusmodus                                                              mod-sawtooth-waves      5

These complex visual gestures can be used most effectively to structure distinctive patterns
in pitch and dynamics parameters. The score example amply demonstrates this.


Score Example:
(setf size 120)
(setf vector (mod-sawtooth-waves
              4 size 4 0.6
              :modulation (gen-sawtooth size 1 '(0.5 0.4 0.3 0.6)
              :modulation (gen-sawtooth size 1 0.3 :phase 180))
              :variant 2))

(setf pitches (gen-divide 4 (vector-to-pitch '(g1 g6) vector)))
(setf transpose (pitch-transpose -12 pitches))
(setf section (rnd-unique (/ (length pitches) 2)
                          (gen-integer 0 (1- (length pitches)))))

(setf variants (pitch-variant transpose :variant '?))
(setf dur1 (rnd-sample (- size 9) '(s e s s)))
(setf dur2 '(s s s s s s s s q))
(setf duration (flatten (list dur1 dur2)))
(setf dur-rh (span pitches duration))
(setf dur-lh (span variants duration))
(setf dynamics '(p mp mf f ff fff))

(def-score mod-sawtooth
           (:key-signature 'chromatic
            :time-signature '(4 4)
            :tempo 100)

(right-hand
 :length dur-rh
 :pitch pitches
 :velocity (rnd-sample size dynamics)
 :sound 'gm
 :channel 1
 :program 'acoustic-grand-piano)

(left-hand
 :length dur-lh
 :pitch variants
 :velocity (rnd-sample size dynamics)))

(display-midi (compile-score ‘mod-sawtooth))
